# 2021.12.15 Agenda
Time 1700 PM (BST)

- Chair – [Pierre Lagarde](https://www.linkedin.com/in/pierlag/) (Microsoft) 
- Chair - [Dan Lewis-toakley ](https://www.linkedin.com/in/danlewistoakley/) (Thoughtworks)
- Convener – [Sean Mcilroy](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sean-mcilroy-bb3b5548/) (Linux Foundation)
  
## Roll call
Pierre Lagarde - MSFT <br>
Dan Lewis-toakley - TW<br>
Sean Mcilroy - LF<br>
Navveen Balani - Accenture<br>
Andrew Woosnam - VMware<br>
Ziliang Zong - TU<br>
Hector Tortosa - TW<br>
Adam Jordan - Shell<br>
Tammy McClellan - MSFT<br>

## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2021.12.15 Agenda

> Sean review the Agenda - Navveen motions to approve the agenda - No Objections - Agenda approved

## Approval of previous meeting minutes (decision)
[2021.11.24_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/innovation_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/20211124_Minutes.md)

> Navveen motions to approve the Minutes - No Objections - Minutes approved

## Projects Update

Vanghan - [Carbon aware SDK](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/carbon-aware-sdk)
> Vaughan unavailable to offer a project update

Dan - [SCI Open Data](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/sci-data)

> Dan offers an update on the SCI Open Data project. Agreed on the KPIs. 

Objective: 1. Large number of diverse organistions contributing to the project 2. Large number of people using the data to calculate their SCI.<br>
Milestone: Determine the scope, agreeing on how the data will be sourced, first contributions, before publication for the team to use the data.<br>
Github project board created - Discussion threads to include - Embodied emissions, Energy consumptions. 

> Dan requested for more volunteers to participate in the project.

## Project Submissions

Navveen - [SCI Open Ontology](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nVwxhlJ03j1TfgVy3KA0Tr_GSxqWkl59wMToDA_oTrQ/edit?usp=sharing)

Navveen offered an overview of the SCI Open Onthology - The SCI Open Ontology project aims to provide a unified representation of SCI and its application.
As Organizations start to understand and apply the SCI specification, it is important we provide a common terminology which can be used and instantiated by downstream applications for either computing an SCI score for an application based on its dependency graph, reporting purposes, visualization, inferring changes between SCI scores, comparison of SCI enabled applications or any standardization requirements.
The SCI open ontology project can also be used as a lightweight storage and representation for all the SCI projects going forward. This will ensure a common terminology and representation being used for all the SCI projects.

Ziliang: What is the file format for the Onthology? - Navveen, this hasn't been determined yet..... maybe json, onthology web language etc
Dan: Is the Scope too big. Navveen - The Scope is big but the first iteration will be the Ontology model.

Navveen requested for members to add their names as contributors

> Action Item - Sean to put this project into a review.
> At the next meeting the WG will motion to approve the project.

## WG Meeting Schedule
Pierre Lagarde
> WG Agreed to hold the next meeting on the 05th Jan

## Any Other Business

No other business submitted.

## Adjournment

> Navveen motions to adjourn - No objections - Meeting closed @ 1738
