2021.25.08 Minutes
Time 1700 PM (BST)

## 2021.25.08 Agenda

## Time 1700 PM (BST)

Chair – Pierre Lagarde (Microsoft)
Co-Chair - Dan Lewis-toakley (Thoughtworks)
Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

## Roll call
Pierre Lagarde - MSFT <br>
Asim Hussain - MSFT <br>
Dave Elliman - TW <br>
Dan Lewis-toakley - TW<br>
Lopez Dominguez - Globant <br>
Cameron Casher - TW<br>
Henry Richards - WT<br>
Abhishek Gupta - MSFT<br>
Tammy McClellan - MSFT<br>
Melanie Richards - MSFT<br>
Paraskevi Zerva - MSFT<br>
Sherry List - MSFT<br>
William Buchanan - MSFT<br>
Sean Mcilroy - LF<br>
Ziliang Zong - Texas Uni

## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.
Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
Agenda Approval (decision)

## 2021.25.08 Agenda
Sean Mcilroy reviews the agenda. Asim Hussain moves to adopt the agenda. All are in favour. The agenda is agreed

## Approval of previous meeting minutes (decision)
2021.08.11_Minutes
Dan Lewis-Toakley moves to approve the minutes. All are in favour. The Minutes are agreed

## Review - Awesome Green Software
Dan to lead

Dan starts the discussion by outlining what the AGS for the new members attending the meeting.

Pull Requests - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/awesome-green-software/pulls

- Initial awesome list content to bootstrap the dev branch - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/awesome-green-software/pull/8
> This PR was agreed by the WG and merged

## Issues - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/awesome-green-software/issues
Dan to lead

## Discussion - migrating https://principles.green to GSF organization
Asim provided an overview of the website and offered to donate the repo to the GSF

> Action Item: Asim to create an issue in the innovation_wg repo to make a list of what needs to be done when migrating/donating code i.e removal of disclaimers, copyrights, etc...

- Ziliang - highlight there are misconceptions about what is green software within the community. We (Innovation WG) should possibly push out a White Paper / Blogg to clarify what is Green Software.
- Dan - We need to develop some criteria about what the Innovation WG would support. 
- Dan - if members have ideas for deliverables they should submit them as an issue to the Innovation_wg

> This topic to be added to the next agenda

## Discussion - making WG repos public

> WG agreed to make the repo public

> Action Item: Before updating the repo to public Dan will sync with Pierre to confirm he's happy with this decision.  

## Discussion - WG Handbook & Welcome Email
Dan offered an overview of the WG Handbook and requested for members to submit ideas on what they'd like to see in it.

## Dictionary - any entries to be added
Dan made a proposal to add: 
- Green by Software
- Green in Software
- GreenUp/PowerUp

> Action Item: Sean to create issue for the proposed dictionary submissions <br>
> Action Item: Ziliang to Create a PR to have items added. Standards WG will review. Need to define the meaning.  

## WG Meeting Schedule
Pierre Lagarde
08 Sept @ 1700 BST

## Any Other Business

Will Buchanan
## What’s our policy/decision criteria for financial supporting ‘Awesome’ projects? (e.g. through resources/grant funding/etc) 
- Asim - make a contributing.md file, don’t be too prescriptive. 
- Dave - strength in adding more to start, shaving some away over time. Should try to establish criteria sooner rather than later and to offer some varification process.
- Will - We need to establish a framework that alignes with the SCI, Real-world carbon impact potential, Visibility/media. 
- Asim - Suggested to start with something that we recommend as a foundation and to be specific about what is green software.
- Dan - We need to be broad and not to have to much of an editorial layer
- Zillang - Green software v Green by Software should be specified
- Asim - Suggest for a disclaimer to be added to the top to clairify the GSF isn't validating the following as green software

> Action Item - Asim to create an issue to convert the list to a .md file

> WG Action Item - To review and add disclaimer to readme.md file about endorsement of items in list -https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/awesome-green-software/issues/9
   
## Adjournment
Asim motioned to adjourn the meeting. All in favour. Meeting closed
