
**Draft - Details to be added**

# 2021.09.15 Minutes
Time 1700 PM (BST)

- Chair – [Pierre Lagarde](https://www.linkedin.com/in/pierlag/) (Microsoft) 
- Co-Chair - [Dan Lewis-toakley ](https://www.linkedin.com/in/danlewistoakley/) (Thoughtworks)
- Convener – [Sean Mcilroy](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sean-mcilroy-bb3b5548/) (Linux Foundation)
  
## Roll call 
Sean Mcilroy - LF<br>
Pierre Lagarde - MS<br>
Vaughn Knight - MS<br>
Asim Hussain - MS<br>
Anthony Laye - GH <br>
Antonio Fisichella ISP - <br>
Arelys Alvarez - TW <br>
Cameron Casher - TW <br>
Giglio Chiara - ISP <br>
Dan Lewis-Toakley - TW <br>
Dominick Dennisur - MS <br>
Henry Richards - WT <br>
Adam Hess - GH <br>
Jose Lopez - Globant <br>
Massimo Poli - ISP <br>
Mihaela Turturean ISP <br>
Navveen Balani - Accenture <br>
Santiago Fontanarrosa - Globant <br>
Sarah Hsu - GS <br>
Stefano Papa - ISP <br>
Tammy McClellan - MS <br>
Taylor Prewitt - MS <br>

## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2021.09.15 Agenda

Sean Mcilroy reviews the agenda. Vaughn Knight moves to adopt the agenda. All are in favour. The agenda is agreed
 
## Approval of previous meeting minutes (decision)
[2021.09.09_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/innovation_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/20210908_minutes.md)

Vaughn Knight moves to approve the minutes 2021.09.09_Minutes. All are in favour. The Minutes are agreed


## Review Project Proposal submissions

a. [carbon aware core library](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OIRxNh6s4UcLLTumYGaOh4xsh-QdFv5HfNb_IJL-eWc/edit) - Vaughn Knight

Vaughn offered an overview of the Carbon aware core library - Project Overview is for developers to build carbon aware software, there is a need for a unified baseline to be implemented.  The Carbon Aware core API is a project to build a common core, that is flexible, agnostic, and open, allowing software and systems to build around carbon aware capabilities, and provide the information so those systems themselves become carbon aware.
The Carbon Aware Core API will look to standardise and simplify carbon awareness for developers through a unified API, command line interface, and modular carbon-aware-logic plugin architecture.
Pierre asked [what is the difference with this project](http://codecarbon.io/)? Dan indicated that the CodeCarbon is specifically focused on measure CO2e emissions from Compute workloads, whereas this is more focused on carbon aware logic - related, but a bit different I think

> WG Agreed to submit for a weeks review prior to its approval.

> Action Item - Sean to submit this for review

b. [SCI core library](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DPnH2oIki2sTIfwih0JVoX1SrFKAovjKNaUlKNttaF8/edit#) - Dan Lewis-Toakley

Dan offered an overview of the SCI Core libraray - Once we publish the Software Carbon Intensity Standard (SCI), many developers are going to want to use it to quantify the carbon intensity of their software. The project aims to make that easy for developers, by building a core Node package that developers can install, and that handles the underlying implementation of the SCI.

> Proposal going to be reviewed over the next few weeks by the WG members, additionally the IWG will engage in converstaion with the SWG to see how the SCI will align with this proposal. 

## Review - [Awesome Green Software](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/awesome-green-software)

a. Pull Requests - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/awesome-green-software/pulls

Research papers on AI's carbon impact and data center cooling efficiency - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/awesome-green-software/pull/10
> Agreed and merged

b. Issues - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/awesome-green-software/issues
> Issues to be reviewed at at a later date

## Review Innovation WG repo

a. Issues - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/innovation_wg/issues

Priority for 3 Proposed Innovations - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/innovation_wg/issues/1
> Closed

$100K GSF Funding For OSS Carbon-Aware API - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/innovation_wg/issues/4
> Closed
> 
## WG Meeting Schedule
Pierre Lagarde
- 22nd Sept @ 1700 BST

> Agreed

## Dictionary Document (Deferred)
Sean Mcilroy
- Review Dictionary Document 

## Any Other Business
Nil

## Adjournment
Vaughn Knight moves to adjourn the meeting. No objections. Meeting closed
