# 2021.11.10 Agenda
Time 1700 PM (BST)

- Chair – [Pierre Lagarde](https://www.linkedin.com/in/pierlag/) (Microsoft) 
- Co-Chair - [Dan Lewis-toakley ](https://www.linkedin.com/in/danlewistoakley/) (Thoughtworks)
- Convener – [Sean Mcilroy](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sean-mcilroy-bb3b5548/) (Linux Foundation)
  
## Roll call 
Sean Mcilroy - LF <br>
Asim Hussain - MSFT <br>
Arelys Alvarez - TW <br>
Arik Smith - TW <br>
Cameron Casher - TW <br>
Dan Lewis-Toakley - TW <br>
Lopez Dominguez - Globant <br>
Fabio Carvalho -  TW <br>
Marcial Hernandez - Globant <br>
Pierre Lagarde - MSFT <br>
Rakesh Varma Siri - Accenture <br>
Ziliang Zong - TU <br>
Tammy McClellan - MSFT <br>

## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2021.11.03 Agenda
> Sean reviews the agenda - Asim motions to approve the agenda - no objections - agenda agreed

## Approval of previous meeting minutes (decision)
[2021.10.20_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/innovation_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/20210913_Minutes.md)
> Asim motions to approve the previous meeting minutes - No objections - Minutes agreed

## Projects Update

**Pierre - Climate Dividends from TimeForThePlanet**

Pierre submits the following URLs that offer more insight to the proposed project. 

  - Web site available - [Climate-Dividends.com](www.climate-dividends.com)
  - [https://youtu.be/8hFIASQbDPw](https://youtu.be/8hFIASQbDPw)
  - [Protocol available](https://uploads-ssl.webflow.com/616fd7314088ebe3d6c7035a/6172cb154f771f2a5539e2e8_Climate%20Dividends%20Protocol%20-%20v%201.2.pdf)
  - Project will be share with Hyperledger - Climat Action SIG from Linux foundation during [next meeting November 16](https://wiki.hyperledger.org/display/CASIG/CA2+SIG+-+Meeting+November+16)
  - A new project proposal will be submitted to this group after this meeting

> Pierre offered an overview/update of the Climate Dividends and point the members to review

**Asim-[Carbon aware SDK](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/carbon-aware-sdk)**

> Asim starts the discussion by offering an update of the SDK project.

- Dotnet implementation
  - native multiplatform support

- CLI
  - CLI can be invoked on standard command line
  - CLI will also be able to be invoked via container

- Library
  - Dotnet native library

- Rest API
  - Container deployable rest API end point
  - Swagger/Open API defintions provided for automated client generation to support other platforms
	- i.e. anyone can generate a Go/Python/Rust/Node client for the API

- Data
  - Static JSON dummy data - with dummy data sets for all aws, azure, and gcp regions
  - Aim to support open data sets if provided later

- Member questions posed
Q) What will need to be re-written/re-used if you implemented this in say Python?
Q) If the data source is real-time WattTime or EM then in the Rest API solution you will still need to call out to those services.

## Project Submissions

Dan - [SCI OpenData](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1n9VLDY689Y62SnwoZ2rCLVMMAkeA5tAQBG31dYv0Sxk/edit#) - including a discussion of desired data sets upon approval

Dan offers an overview update to the Opendata project - 

Dan motions to Approve the project - No objections - Project is approved

> Action Item - Sean to create repo & Slack channel

Milestones

Asim asked what are the proposed timelines for this to be ready. Dan proposed a deadline for the v.alpha by the end of Q1 2022

## WG Meeting Schedule
Pierre Lagarde

- 24th Nov @ 1700 BST (bi-weekly)

## Any Other Business
Pierre offers his thanks to Asim for the great job on the website.

## Adjournment
Asim motions to adjourn the meeting - No objections - Meeting closed
