# 2022.07.06 Minutes

Time 1500 PM (BST)

- Co-Chair – Chris Lloyd-Jones - Avanade
- Co-Chair - Dan Lewis-toakley - Thoughtworks
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy - Linux Foundation
  
## Roll call 

Sean Mcilroy - LF<br>
Chris Lloyd-Jones - Avanade<br>
Inky Vos - SDA <br>
Szymon Duchniewicz - Avanade <br>
Navveen Balani - Accenture <br>
Marco Valtas - TW <br>
Lu.L.Wang3 - Shell <br>
Akshit Batra - TW<br>
Dan Lewis-Toakley - TW <br>
Paola Annis - TW<br>
Cameron Casher - TW <br>
Manish Kumar - Shell <br>
Janardan Misra - Accenture<br>
  
## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 

2022.07.06 Agenda

Sean reviews the agenda - Cameron motions to approve - no objections - Agenda approved
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes (decision)

[2022.06.22_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/opensource_wg/edit/main/Agenda_Minutes/2022.06.22_Agenda.md)

Sean reviews the previous meeting minutes - Navveen motions to approve the minutes - No objections - Minutes approved

## Projects Update

1. Vanghan (MSFT) - [Carbon aware SDK](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/carbon-aware-sdk)

Szymon - Currently working on the v1.0, which can be viewed the GitHub dev branch. The aim is to have the project ready for review at the end of July
Sean noted, that once the project is ready for approval, a consistency review will be required.

AI: Szymon to present a demo at the next WG meeting, if possible

2. Chris (GWF) - [SCI Open Data](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/sci-data)

No updates

3. Navveen (Accenture) - [SCI Open Ontology](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wPIMHOGxvaDH743CT0upf2AVR9pXwl6v/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=109368751668006670411&rtpof=true&sd=true)

Navveen - So with respect to a CI ontology project, we we are having a bi weekly call every Wednesday, that's going well. And from a design perspective, we have completed our initial design for the Bayes SCA ontology module. What we are currently working on and probably need help is identifying the right tools to represent the ontology model. So we have been thinking, what is the best way to represent or have this base model available right as a set of templates, which can be used by any practitioner. 
<br>
Navveen requested for some support, with the project.

> AI: Navveen to forward Sean the developer requirements

4. Sarah (Goldman Sachs) - [Green_Software_principles](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/Green_Software_principles)

Cameron - There are two separate paths decided right now to keep focusing on the principal side and get an assessment going for people to take a course. 
Additionally, there's also a separate focus on building out the patterns in a separate repository. The aim is to have a consistency review in August.

5. Fergus Kidd (Avanade) - [Carbon CI Pipeline Tooling](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/Carbon_CI_Pipeline_Tooling)

Szymon - There currently an open pull request, which will be reviewed on Friday, which adds in all the missing code, as well as some fixes to the to the repository from from an air source because during the contribution, wasn't merged fully. 
So this fixes the the mergers plus add some fixes for it to work. I tested it locally. Plus, I'm doing a demo that utilises this, this tool and I'm using it in a GitHub action already. 
There's also some work happening on I believe I live the I'm not sure if the President call You know what, she's also a member of the JSF, to add comments to pull requests fr

AI: Szymon to present a demo at the next WG meeting, if possible

6. Dan Lewis-Toakley (Thoughtworks) - [Awesome Green Software](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/awesome-green-software/tree/dev)

> No updates

## Review submitted discussions & issues

[Submitted discussions](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/innovation_wg/discussions)

[Project] Green Software Landscape - Proposal

Dan review and reminds members of the GSF landscape for CNCF and the Open Source landscape. Dan added - if you or anyone you know, might have this sort of capacity to kick kick it off and sort of anchor this is a new project within the within the open source working group. 

## Opensource

PR's - Update calendar - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/opensource_wg/pull/36
> PR merged

## WG Meeting Schedule

> Bi weekly - Next meeting 20th July

Meeting agreed

## Any Other Business

Nothing added

## Adjournment

Navveen motions to adjourn, no objections - Meeting adjourned
