# 2022.04.27 Minutes

Time 1700 PM (BST)

- Co-Chair – Chris Lloyd-Jones - Avanade
- Co-Chair - Dan Lewis-toakley - Thoughtworks
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy - Linux Foundation
  
## Roll call
Sean Mcilroy - LF <br>
Chris Lloyd-Jones - Avanade<br>
Markus Seidl - NTTData<br>
Akshit Batra - TW<br>
Marina Emsing - Syngenio<br>
Lu Wang - Shell<br>
Daniel Lazaro - AVEVA<br>
Guang Li - Shell<br>
Anthony Hevia - MSFT<br>
Dan Benitah - Avanade<br>
Sravanthi Ashok Kumar<br>
brian hopper - VMWare<br>
Navveen Balani - Accenture<br>
Sarah Hsu - GS<br>
Cameron Casher - TW<br>
Marco Valtas - TW<br>

  
## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.

[Audio transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/128Oab0bhyyziQKDCpJMkKpCg9EAbSueR/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=109189016904402965838&rtpof=true&sd=true)

[Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/128Oab0bhyyziQKDCpJMkKpCg9EAbSueR/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=109189016904402965838&rtpof=true&sd=true)

## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2022.04.27 Agenda

> Sean reviews the Agenda - Navveen motions to approve the agenda - no objections - Agenda approved
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes (decision)
[2022.03.30_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/opensource_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2022.03.30_Agenda.md)

> Navveen motions to approve the minutes - no objections - Minutes approved

## Issue & PR Review
Review innovation WG PRs and issues.

- [Adds a branch for call cadence and slack link](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/innovation_wg/pull/28)

Chris reviews the PR - No comments submitted

> PR agreed by the WG and Merged

- [Poll to update and confirm the WG time](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/innovation_wg/issues/26)

Chris reviews the Poll submissions and new WG meeting schedule - Wednesdays @ 10am ET works best for the most people.

> No objections - New WG meeting schedule approved

## Projects Update

- Vanghan (MSFT) - [Carbon aware SDK](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/carbon-aware-sdk)

Akshit - We have got some new versions of those sections and we're looking for graphic ideas, so we have some graphic ideas so people are coming up with some links, and so we can recreate or reuse the Gothic four sections.

- Chris (GWF) - [SCI Open Data](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/sci-data)

- Navveen (Accenture) - [SCI Open Ontology](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wPIMHOGxvaDH743CT0upf2AVR9pXwl6v/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=109368751668006670411&rtpof=true&sd=true)

Naveen - We want to accomplish the first milestone, so we are currently working on trying to create all the basic constructs right for initial ontology modeling, that'll be required for creating a software boundary. People that who like to involved in this project, so we haven't yet started a regular meeting, but hopefully by next week

- Sarah (Goldman Sachs) - [Green_Software_principles](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/Green_Software_principles)

the projects going very well, we revised our milestones and we're currently focusing on creating a deck for the summit. We're hoping to finish the deck and then hopefully start the consistent review after the summit and we'll then focuse on our Q3 and Q4 milestones. Additionally, we'll discuss how we're going to create a process for people to submit patterns and how do we actually apply those principles in a specific domain or specific context.

- Fergus Kidd (Avanade) - [Carbon CI Pipeline Tooling](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/Carbon_CI_Pipeline_Tooling)

## Review submitted discussions & issues

- [Submitted discussions](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/innovation_wg/discussions)
- [Green Software Landscape - Proposal](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/innovation_wg/issues/15)

## PR Review - Asim

Review PR's submitted against the Green Software Principles project

- [Measuring Emmissions](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/green-software-principles/pull/50)

## WG Meeting Schedule

Bi weekly - Next meeting 11th May
> Agreed

## Any Other Business

Chris reminds the Project leads to submit a PR to add their project meeting schedule

Sean reminds the WG members of the upcoming [GSF Summit](https://greensoftware.foundation/)

## Adjournment

Naveen motions to adjourn - No objections - Meeting adjourned
