# 2022.03.02 Agenda
Time 1700 PM (BST)

- Chair – [Pierre Lagarde](https://www.linkedin.com/in/pierlag/) (Microsoft) 
- Chair - [Dan Lewis-toakley ](https://www.linkedin.com/in/danlewistoakley/) (Thoughtworks)
- Convener – [Sean Mcilroy](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sean-mcilroy-bb3b5548/) (Linux Foundation)
  
## Roll call 

Sean Mcilroy - LF<br>
Sarah Hsu - GS<br>
Navveen Balani - Aveneade<br>
Dan Lewis-Toakley - TW<br>
Akshit Batra - TW<br>
Amira El Fekih - Avenade<br>
Brian Hopper - Avenade<br>
Cameron Casher - TW<br>
Chris Lloyd-Jones - Accenture<br>
Asim Hussain - MSFT<br>
Lopez Dominguez - Globant<br>
Furgus Kidd - Accenture<br>
Lu Wang - Shell<br>
Marc-Andre Groulx - MSFT<br>
Marchial Hernandez - Globant<br>
Mariana Emsing - Syngenio<br>
Markus Seidl - NttData<br>
Daniel Schien - BU<br>

## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2022.03.02 Agenda

> Sean reviews the agenda - Navveen motions to approve the agenda - No objections - Agenda approved
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes (decision)
[2022.02.16_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/innovation_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2022.02.16_Minutes.md)

> Asim motions to approve the minutes - No objections - previous minutes approved

## WG Name & Scope to be updated (Discussion & Decision)

WG Co-Chairs / Asim to lead

- The Innovation Working Group will change to the Open Source Working Group

**WG Scope change** 
- Old Scope:
Direct open-source, open-data and academic research in areas that advance the field of Green Software.
Sponsor key open-source and open-data projects to build confidence they will be supported and maintained for the long-term.

- New Scope
Create open-source and open-data projects in areas that advance the field of Green Software.
Sponsor 3rd part key open-source and open-data projects to build confidence they will be supported and maintained for the long-term.

> Asim informs the WG that the name and scope change is to align itself with the the way the WG functions.
> WG discuss the name change and scope change and agree to review the scope further as a discussion over the next 14 days

> Action Item - Sean to create a discussion item for members to submit comments

## Projects Update

1. Vanghan (MSFT) - [Carbon aware SDK](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/carbon-aware-sdk)

> Chris unavailable offer an update 

2. Chris (GWF) - [SCI Open Data](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/sci-data)

> Chris unavailable offer an update 

3. Navveen (Accenture) - [SCI Open Ontology](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wPIMHOGxvaDH743CT0upf2AVR9pXwl6v/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=109368751668006670411&rtpof=true&sd=true)




4. Sarah (Goldman Sachs) - [Green_Software_principles](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/Green_Software_principles)

> Sarah offers an overview of the current 
Contact sarah via - sarah.Hsu@gs.com

> Asim continued the discussing by reviewing PR [Pattern, Rightsizing oversized VMs](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/Green_Software_principles/pull/24)


## Project proposal discussion

> Chris Lloyd-Jones/ Furgus Kidd (Avanade)

[Carbon Pipeline Tooling](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oacfO1dxcBNRhPJegk0aHPOgF3KNvuDy/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=109189016904402965838&rtpof=true&sd=true)

[Carbon Tooling for CICD - Proposal](https://mail.google.com/mail/u/0/?tab=rm#search/Carbon+Tooling+for+CICD/FMfcgzGmvLNNWfbZvrQMbfpPfXVWQWpr)

> Furgus started the discussion by presenting the carbon tooling proposal doc. This tooling covers the pipeline from a git commit, up to deployment, in a typical continuous integration/continuous deployment process. This project fills gaps in the toolchain – and could support integration with existing tooling, like static code analysis tools for Green Software, and other future projects.



## Review submitted discussions

[Submitted discussions](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/innovation_wg/discussions)

## PR Review - Asim
Instead of a hackathon this week, we will discuss and review a PR from Asim for the Green Software Principles project - similar to how the Standard WG operate

## WG Meeting Schedule

Bi weekly - Next meeting 16th January

## WG Election notifiction

- The Green Software Foundation will be accepting Chair nominations for the Innovation Working Group Chairs from the 07th March.
- Sponsor and General Members are permitted to be candidates for chair positions.

## Any Other Business

## Adjournment
