# 2022.07.20 Agenda

Time 1500 PM (BST)

- Co-Chair – Chris Lloyd-Jones - Avanade
- Co-Chair - Dan Lewis-toakley - Thoughtworks
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy - Linux Foundation

[Recorded meeting](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/19eYmNaTN7D2J62sO28VSVus-HJOIa16Q?usp=sharing)

## Roll call 

Sean Mcilroy - LF<br>
Bastian Pflitsch - Syngenio<br>
Szymon (Simon) Duchniewicz - Avanade<br>
Inky Vos - SDIA<br>
Dan Lewis-Toakley - TW<br>
Akshit Batra - Accenture<br>
Lu.L.Wang3 - Shell<br>
Nick Walker - Avanade<br>
Marco Valtas - Thoughtworks<br>
Navveen Balani - Accenture<br>
Tammy McClellan - MSFT<br>
Fergus Kidd - Avanade<br>
Ben Logan - IBM<br>
Yass - MSFT<br>
Nick Vilimek - Shell<br>
Shweta kamboj - TW<br>
Jerrico Jr Dela Cruz - Accenture<br>

## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 

2022.07.20 Agenda

> Sean reviews the agenda - Navveen motions to approve the agenda - No objections - Agenda approved
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes (decision)

[2022.07.06_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/opensource_wg/edit/main/Agenda_Minutes/2022.07.06_Agenda.md)

> Navveen motions to approve the minutes - No objections - minutes approved

## Projects Update

- Vanghan (MSFT) - [Carbon aware SDK](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/carbon-aware-sdk)

Szymon (Simon) Duchniewicz - We are currently working on adding a client generation for the SDK, which is not merged into interdomain branch at the moment. I'm working with, setting up the clients themselves to work separately, and to integrate with other projects. So with the carbon pipeline, there's some open PRs for some small fixes.

**AI**: Carbon aware SDK, to make a presentation to the WG

1. Brian Hopper - [SCI Open Data](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/sci-data)

> AI: Sean to invite Brian to the next meeting to offer an update

2. Navveen (Accenture) - [SCI Open Ontology](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wPIMHOGxvaDH743CT0upf2AVR9pXwl6v/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=109368751668006670411&rtpof=true&sd=true)

Navveen - There's something which I've been looking into in terms of how can you create a visual representation right from the code itself and these are the examples, where you can differ. These assume there are basically nodes, cluster edges, to a similar thing we will have for the SER logic models, where we have programming language nodes construct and based on the definition. If you look at the design diagram, you could come up with similar representation where you could write your software boundary using some language like this, where you can see your nodes come. You have three nodes running three containers running two programming language as you automatically, once we have this node defined, you should be able to have some representation of this, and once you have the boundary defined, you can then use it for calculation also, I mean, whether it's for reporting or any other thing, right, once. So that's the idea of using this tool to having a representation right of various boundaries define. And depending on this construct, right, currently, it's for AWS as your GCP. But we'll have constructs which maps to our NS or SCA ontology model. <br>

AI: Sean to look at finding a person to help Navveen.

3. Sarah (Goldman Sachs) - [Green_Software_principles](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/Green_Software_principles)

> AI: Sean to move this project to the Community WG

4. Fergus Kidd (Avanade) - [Carbon CI Pipeline Tooling](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/Carbon_CI_Pipeline_Tooling)

> Furgus - the covenant CI pipeline tooling is moving along nicely. In terms of the last couple of weeks, we've been testing and experimentation around the GitHub action in blocks, and also GitHub Pages. We're just started to have a think about how we get some of the information back to developers. We've also been doing a lot of work to kind of refine the outstanding work and the questions that are going on there, which I will then update in the GitHub actions. One of the questions that we have is actually about open data around where is the best place going to be to collect some of the SCI data from in terms of computer usage for different resources on different cloud systems. I'd be very interested to link up a little bit more closely with that project. We're also working very closely with Simon to see if the carbon SDK if we could actually be using that as part of the CI tooling, because there's a little bit of overlap. So we'll investigate as soon as they are ready to, to go, we'll be investigating whether we can include that in in the project in some way or use some of the the good outputs coming from that project as well. So there's a little bit more work to do around kind of refining some of the the open questions, we have interactions to close some of those out, which will be my focus for the session that we have on Thursday. 

AI: Possible demo for the next meeting

Dan Lewis-Toakley (Thoughtworks) - [Awesome Green Software](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/awesome-green-software/tree/dev)

## Review submitted discussions & issues

[Submitted discussions](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/innovation_wg/discussions)

Dan offers an overview of the proposal to set up a Green software foundation landscape, using the open source tool from CNCF, which is commonly used by other Linux Foundation projects for a consistent way to share resources. E.g. at landscape.greensoftware.foundation

AI: Sean to set up a call between Arkshit and CLJ

## Opensource

PR's - Nothing to review

## Google Opensource

Szymon Duchniewicz - FAQ mentions the projects in the organisation must run under an Open source license, and it must have released software under an Open source license. (Plus have at least 2 contributors to serve as mentors for the projects that can take place)
Additaditionally, Google pays 500 USD to the organisation per each GSoC contributor (accepted student).

https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/faq#what_are_the_eligibility_requirements_for_a_mentoring_organization

> Dan suggests to revisit this submission in Jan 2022

## WG Meeting Schedule

> Bi weekly - Next meeting 04th Aug

## Any Other Business

> Nothing added

## Adjournment

> Navveen motions adjourn - no objection - meeting closed
